David Schaich (he): Okay, I think we can get underway with
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): end of lectures for this week on Tuesday afternoon,
David Schaich (he): fourteenth of March.  And before I can zoom a lot of this,
David Schaich (he): I will mention the magic number for today:
1, 1,
David Schaich (he): 0,
David Schaich (he): 9, 0, 5.  And then just
David Schaich (he): check in on where we are in the module. We have just wrapped up a couple of weeks of applications of the canonical ensemble.  First to
David Schaich (he): the physics of information in spin systems, then to deal gases, which we
David Schaich (he): put to work in thermodynamic cycles, heat engines and refrigerators,
David Schaich (he): looking in some detail at the Carnot cycle, with a few more to come in tutorial and homework. And now we are
David Schaich (he): changing pack just a bit to go back from applications to
David Schaich (he): foundations in a particular develop the mathematical basis of the third
David Schaich (he): major statistical ensemble that we will be looking at in this module.
David Schaich (he): the grand canonical ensemble. They are now
David Schaich (he): neither energy nor particle number is conserved.
David Schaich (he): or rather these temperature and
David Schaich (he): this new quality that we began talking about yesterday
David Schaich (he): are being the first
David Schaich (he): through exchange of both particles and energy
David Schaich (he): between our system and this
David Schaich (he): environments a large external particle reservoir.
David Schaich (he): So right that now, more formally.
David Schaich (he): it is just for a moment to see if there are any questions or concerns
you want to.
David Schaich (he): through dynamic cycles or other applications of the canonical ensemble
David Schaich (he): before we get
David Schaich (he): set that a move on to the new topic.
David Schaich (he): I'm not seeing any. Let's just
David Schaich (he): that will
David Schaich (he): occupy our attention
David Schaich (he): the rest of the time before the term break.
David Schaich (he): So. in contrast to the micro canonical.
David Schaich (he): what's characterized.
David Schaich (he): My fixed temperature is here.
David Schaich (he): and they fixed chemical potential.
David Schaich (he): you.
David Schaich (he): both of which are still fixed through exchange of the energy.
David Schaich (he): even particles. Really
David Schaich (he): the large external reservoir that is now
David Schaich (he): you particle reservoir, not really
David Schaich (he): through the reservoir, sometimes cool
David Schaich (he): the particle bath
David Schaich (he): sometimes used to refer to the
David Schaich (he): And now of these all of these we are used to fixing the temperature by energy exchange with one. That's a feature of the canonical example. The
David Schaich (he): that comes from being able to exchange particles with this large external reservoir.
David Schaich (he): and we wrapped up
David Schaich (he): yesterday by finding this chemical potential
David Schaich (he): you to be proportional to the response of the entropy
David Schaich (he): with respect to a change of the particle number and a fixed energy
David Schaich (he): micro
David Schaich (he): in particular and equilibrium.
David Schaich (he): it is
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): so.
David Schaich (he): This, like the temperature itself in the microscopic ensemble. This definition is not immediately obvious.
David Schaich (he): so we will build up some intuition about it in a particular.
David Schaich (he): The use of what we've done with the temperature in the past.
David Schaich (he): So one thing we can do is that, thanks to this overall factor of August to you. in front of the it has the same dimensions as the temperature.
David Schaich (he): because we grew up working in this, where.
David Schaich (he): for the chemical, potential and dimensions of energy. you can go to them all right intensive quantities
which
David Schaich (he): we' to are those that are the same between any 2 subsystems in full dynamic equilibrium.
David Schaich (he): Or if we take any larger system and look at a small portion of it. The
David Schaich (he): intensive qualities, like the temperature of the chemical central state, same
David Schaich (he): encountered as to extensive quantities, like the energy Your part of the number that scale.
David Schaich (he): Maybe the
David Schaich (he): the most interesting aspect of the chemical potential is to find here is the negative sign that we have
David Schaich (he): what this. The consequence of this negative sign is that if we consider it
David Schaich (he): these so-called natural systems, that we
David Schaich (he): several weeks ago, in the context of these were systems that have of the temperature in contrast to system. That was on that first homework assignment.
David Schaich (he): Before these natural systems you can expect in general
David Schaich (he): a larger number of particles to
David Schaich (he): to a larger amount of entropy.
David Schaich (he): just by having more information about how those larger numbers of particles can be distributed on various different microstates.
David Schaich (he): That's the This is true, even if we
David Schaich (he): fix the amount of energy
David Schaich (he): that all of the particles can have a total. So in mathematical technology, what this
David Schaich (he): relation means is that
David Schaich (he): you change the entropy.
David Schaich (he): maybe change the particle number.
David Schaich (he): If the particle number right changes in positive direction, we add more particles, we get more entropy. We have both the
David Schaich (he): change in response in this greater than 0.
David Schaich (he): In a sense. the chemical potential is that partial derivative multiply the positive temperature with the negative sign we end up with the negative chemical potential for natural systems.
David Schaich (he): And really the selling that we put in here is
David Schaich (he): to some extent our scholars
David Schaich (he): I mean choice in the global theoretical physics.
David Schaich (he): and the choice To have
David Schaich (he): a natural chemical potential to be negative is made to simplified
any
David Schaich (he): our intuition about how
David Schaich (he): systems behave. Given
David Schaich (he): the chemical potential that they have.
I appreciate this by
David Schaich (he): considering a process of particles from between
David Schaich (he): 2 systems much like the
David Schaich (he): heat Exchange.
David Schaich (he): Well experiment that we used to check that the micro canonical definition of the temperature
David Schaich (he): behaves as we would expect from everyday experience with temperature. We don't have
David Schaich (he): so much everyday experience that we can.
David Schaich (he): We will see that our temperature and heat well, intuition here he is over next to this negative sign. So we have 2 systems call it in.
David Schaich (he): They all in
David Schaich (he): from one critical contact, so they are not divided at all.
David Schaich (he): and they have some
David Schaich (he): number of particles.
David Schaich (he): and i' to
David Schaich (he): exchange those particles as time goes by.
David Schaich (he): You want to see how this process depends
David Schaich (he): on the chemical potentials that each of these systems have for simplicity. Let's have both of these systems at the same
David Schaich (he): positive temperature.
David Schaich (he): So if we consider the case without the generality.
David Schaich (he): suppose that we have labeled these systems
David Schaich (he): Substance.
David Schaich (he): U. A. Is a
David Schaich (he): more negative number than
sure.
David Schaich (he): the system B.
David Schaich (he): So what this means.
David Schaich (he): since the temperature is the same is that the
David Schaich (he): partial derivative of the interviewing system. A. With respect to
David Schaich (he): it is a larger content quality. Yeah.
David Schaich (he): a system meeting.
David Schaich (he): And you want to consider what implications this has
David Schaich (he): no the fact that we're talking about changes in entropy with respect to changes in the number of particles
David Schaich (he): they h into, that the second wall is going to come into play.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): if we suppose that there is. see that is. on the screen.
David Schaich (he): these little particles between
David Schaich (he): these 2 systems, a and B means that the number of
David Schaich (he): system a is going to change by an amount that is equal and opposite to
David Schaich (he): you. Change your
David Schaich (he): and this process will me to so changing the overall entropy
David Schaich (he): of those 2 systems.
David Schaich (he): So the and the some of the will change the energy, and
David Schaich (he): each one separately.
David Schaich (he): you can with fixed energy. Just relate to particle flow
David Schaich (he): in the
David Schaich (he): natural way.
David Schaich (he): By the second ball of thermodynamics is overall. Change the entropy of the universe. Anything negative?
David Schaich (he): Yeah, it's greater than 0.
David Schaich (he): So the total amount of energy in the universe is a non-decreasing quantity and generically an increasing one and plugging in this relation between the change in the particle number of each subsystem
David Schaich (he): we have the
David Schaich (he): and change the number of particles.
David Schaich (he): the subsystem thing with the more negative chemical potential.
David Schaich (he): So where is the smaller chemical potential
David Schaich (he): multiply it by
David Schaich (he): difference
David Schaich (he): Changes in the entropy across those 2 subsystems
David Schaich (he): is a non-negative number. Since we set things up that the partial derivative system a is the larger one. This turn the brackets is greater than or equal to 0,
David Schaich (he): which then applies by the second. the particles must well
David Schaich (he): from System B to system. A oops there is
David Schaich (he): that on the screen for you
David Schaich (he): number of public goals in system a increases
David Schaich (he): the changes greater than 0, precisely because we chose it to have
David Schaich (he): the smaller chemical potential. So in words.
David Schaich (he): with our definition of chemical potential.
David Schaich (he): there is a larger chemical potential 2 areas or systems of smaller chemical potential. which is exactly the same behavior as we
David Schaich (he): we expect with keep flow related to the temperature. He flows from high temperature regions to coal furniture regions.
David Schaich (he): So we can essentially our same intuition about temperature and energy
that to
David Schaich (he): the relation between chemical potential and particles.
David Schaich (he): any questions about
David Schaich (he): the definition of chemical potential or its role in the grand canonical ensemble.
David Schaich (he): Before you go on to.
David Schaich (he): we develop the mathematical toolkit
David Schaich (he): for analyzing the
David Schaich (he): mathematically.
David Schaich (he): I'll see if I can
David Schaich (he): fix this projector. Okay. So this would be better.
David Schaich (he): So we've seen the for the definition of the great economic ensemble just as we had for the not even
David Schaich (he): you step in doing anything with either the canonical. The first step is always to compute
David Schaich (he): the partition function for which.
and
David Schaich (he): derive
David Schaich (he): any other qualities of interest, like the entropy, internal energy. one media.
David Schaich (he): the particle number. And as for
David Schaich (he): the case of economic working through.
David Schaich (he): you want to
David Schaich (he): find some expression for
microstate probabilities
David Schaich (he): that are independence. any details
David Schaich (he): of the particle reservoir.
David Schaich (he): So you may recall that
David Schaich (he): with the economical ensemble we derived it gives distribution that dependent on the Boltzmann factor
David Schaich (he): that related the
David Schaich (he): okay microstates to
David Schaich (he): exponential.
David Schaich (he): But this is energy over the temperature or divided by that canonical.
David Schaich (he): No, we're pretty bad. So
David Schaich (he): innovation that construction out of microstate probabilities in the grand chemical context for the particle number. He's also allowed to change
David Schaich (he): between various microstates
David Schaich (he): with these probabilities.
David Schaich (he): The same trick that
David Schaich (he): we use in the chemical case
David Schaich (he): right
David Schaich (he): well motivated
David Schaich (he): in the form of the particle reservoir.
David Schaich (he): and then carry out the computation.
David Schaich (he): other microstate probabilities. and show that all information about the particle reservoir he is. props away. It becomes unknowable, except for the fact that it fixes
David Schaich (he): the temperature and chemical potential. So this is that same sort of administration that we looked at before
David Schaich (he): for the replica in the canonical case. The difference now is that we have
David Schaich (he): our system of interest, Omega. We have a large number of copies of that system.
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): the total system will make a total.
David Schaich (he): This combination of
David Schaich (he): times. The reservoir
David Schaich (he): That reservoir is
David Schaich (he): in turn in my R minus one replicas. Okay. So in the end we have
David Schaich (he): all right. Total copies of the system. In this case a is 9, and
David Schaich (he): the all of these replicas is governed by the micro canonical ensemble. But the different replicas are about to exchange both heat
David Schaich (he): the orange to a dynamic equilibrium; that, just as in the canonical case. and they're also allowed to exchange particles. you can
David Schaich (he): out from one
David Schaich (he): the next as Tom was on.
David Schaich (he): And so this boxes that we've drawn around the various different replicas are at this point just sort of purely mental constructions.
David Schaich (he): You might think that
David Schaich (he): our system of interest Omega could be a cubic cent of year out of air in this room, and then the reservoir.
David Schaich (he): just the rest of the room, all the other cubic centimeters that we have.
whatever you
David Schaich (he): making, the
David Schaich (he): total energy in both
David Schaich (he): system and
David Schaich (he): that surrounds it is concerned.
David Schaich (he): So you will
David Schaich (he): some over the energies of all our replicas. And now we have a similar constraint for the particle number.
David Schaich (he): Part of the number in the system is allowed to fluctuate by exchanging particles with the reservoir.
David Schaich (he): Yeah. total all of those replicas I have to have the
David Schaich (he): constant served fixed number of particles overall.
David Schaich (he): This is also true, I'll add, in the canonical phase, but there it was trivial, because
David Schaich (he): every a replica of the system was
David Schaich (he): constrained to have the
David Schaich (he): and sort of a number of particles in economical, fairly quickly. This is now and generalized to make things a bit more interesting and
David Schaich (he): generic. so, as we did before.
proceed by rewriting
David Schaich (he): this replica system
David Schaich (he): in terms of occupation, numbers, and occupation probabilities. So you say that. or a small system of interest, that single replica.
David Schaich (he): we will assume it has
David Schaich (he): the accountable number. the microstates, and
David Schaich (he): range from 1, 2,
David Schaich (he): and then microstate over. I
David Schaich (he): no longer has a
David Schaich (he): fixed amount of energy or a fixed number of particles.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): from microstates to microstate. So they say that
David Schaich (he): my E, I, you personal number and I,
David Schaich (he): hey? And it
David Schaich (he): for everything. We are going to do with the
David Schaich (he): we will actually
David Schaich (he): fixed in case that
David Schaich (he): the this turns out to be the looks physically interesting. Use of the just. When you think about physical context in which we are able to create or destroy particles.
David Schaich (he): those particles are necessarily in the one potential application
David Schaich (he): that we will get in some detail on the canonical case
David Schaich (he): where it is. you fixed number of particles, that
David Schaich (he): and all period of labels.
David Schaich (he): So with this set up. yeah. same sort of
David Schaich (he): occupation, numbers
David Schaich (he): and occupation. And I,
David Schaich (he): my Api, is just
David Schaich (he): the occupation number.
David Schaich (he): So Ni is counting the number of replicas in the overall system. Yeah adults. Microsoft.
David Schaich (he): and the corresponding credibility is the probability that if we choose the replica at random in that total system it will
David Schaich (he): be in microstate for me, I
David Schaich (he): So by these definitions, and as before.
David Schaich (he): from a number of microstates that we sum over all the occupation numbers all the different microstates we got.
I don't
David Schaich (he): all of the different replicas. if we divide both sides of that identity by number of replicas.
David Schaich (he): confirmed that the occupation Probabilities are indeed both fine to probabilities that add up to 100% and the
David Schaich (he): whole energy and
David Schaich (he): number of particles of this many. we can.
David Schaich (he): We write these
David Schaich (he): in terms of the occupation numbers. The total energy
David Schaich (he): is the so over the energies of each microstate
David Schaich (he): number of replicas, they not that micro state, and similarly for
David Schaich (he): particles.
David Schaich (he): it was just Ni at times, and I
David Schaich (he): sorry about that that notation.
David Schaich (he): but at least the capitalization should make things what we're talking about. By the end of this exercise all of these
David Schaich (he): replica-dependent quantities like occupation numbers in the occupation holiday. It should all drop out
David Schaich (he): any questions about not like a trick at all. You are
David Schaich (he): going through for the second time, but it's good.
David Schaich (he): Most of the the last salt
David Schaich (he): so given. This set up
David Schaich (he): of occupation's, owners and occupation probabilities.
David Schaich (he): What we want to do with this is compute
David Schaich (he): the temperature and chemical potential.
David Schaich (he): Can you get a replica?
David Schaich (he): They are the same, or the full system, and any subsist to 0.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): we will use this based on the
David Schaich (he): definitions of the temperature and chemical potential that we have in the microcontroller
David Schaich (he): equilibrium.
David Schaich (he): So we have to look at the
David Schaich (he): full system, and a total that is governed by the microphonical, unsolvable. Yeah, we need
David Schaich (he): that full system to the
David Schaich (he): which, as always. because she. my maximizing the entropy that's total of the full system.
David Schaich (he): With me
David Schaich (he): usual constraints on
the Conservatives
David Schaich (he): probability and energy and particle number they come from. In micro.
David Schaich (he): So since we have defined
David Schaich (he): the occupation, numbers, and occupation, probabilities in exactly the same way as before, even though the corresponding microstates are different. And now they have different numbers.
David Schaich (he): I've been to the particles
David Schaich (he): those different microstates get swept under under the rock. and the conversation of the 12, because it's only on
David Schaich (he): the for some of our occupation numbers occupation. You may recall that the total number of microstates for this micro canonical system was the number of
David Schaich (he): ways that in one
David Schaich (he): right, because the total r could be assigned it to microstate one.
David Schaich (he): Okay.
David Schaich (he): we have an end to another coefficients choosing and 2 ways for the remaining all minus one replicas, to be aside from the to, and so on, a telescope and product all the way up
David Schaich (he): until the final microspace Guys was occupied by all the remaining. As you get on the side replicas and taking the
David Schaich (he): this big ratio of factorials.
David Schaich (he): using approximation from Sterling's formula.
David Schaich (he): simple expression for total entropy
David Schaich (he): is the of occupation. Probabilities.
David Schaich (he): Times your logarithm.
David Schaich (he): the overall factor of the number of replicas out from.
David Schaich (he): and the assumption that all and occupation numbers are much more. of course.
David Schaich (he): and the maximization of the entropy proceeds as before.
David Schaich (he): Change that we have to add
David Schaich (he): multiplier
David Schaich (he): to the procedure in order to account for the fluctuations of the particle number.
David Schaich (he): I'm all for you
David Schaich (he): Microstates that lead to like, we're not these occupation capabilities.
David Schaich (he): so we will have a modified Entropy s bar that
David Schaich (he): starts all people to.
David Schaich (he): if you quickly, and it adds the usual straight on
David Schaich (he): the occupation probabilities.
David Schaich (he): They all have to add up to one. We have that same constraint on the total energy. This there it is that total energy has to equal the
David Schaich (he): of the occupation numbers. We divide the energies. The occupation number is
David Schaich (he): the P. I. I. That's equal the total energy. And then the new constraints has that same for David
David Schaich (he): all times you I. It's a part of the number of which microstates
David Schaich (he): has to add up to the conserved total number of particles in our micro canonical system.
David Schaich (he): and as always, the
David Schaich (he): extreme of of this modified entropy
David Schaich (he): are the same as those of the
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): of this modified test. Call with respect to
David Schaich (he): set that equal to 0 to find the maximum. And yeah, before. when we go through the
David Schaich (he): you could have a delta function of the
David Schaich (he): I and K. Which
David Schaich (he): that will be over. I. It picks out
David Schaich (he): the one on the case where I equals K.
One.
David Schaich (he): We get to build a function summed over. I also give us a one. It might as okay or
David Schaich (he): okay.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): 3 of these sports rooms, and rearranging to here. one by itself
David Schaich (he): over our mine is
David Schaich (he): so that the occupation probability itself. It's just the exponential of that. the minus over our
David Schaich (he): which we can we arrange as a ratio of exponentials?
Sure.
David Schaich (he): Hopefully, it is okay familiar with it
David Schaich (he): my addition
David Schaich (he): in place.
David Schaich (he): The denominator, you a
David Schaich (he): you
David Schaich (he): or one over is that she?
David Schaich (he): You know the numerator is
okay.
David Schaich (he): So this is
David Schaich (he): similar to what we had in the in our case, just with
David Schaich (he): a few more.
David Schaich (he): Another term. That depends on the particle number and a different yeah mobilizing these occupation probabilities. So I hopefully. This point i'll just go ahead
David Schaich (he): starting. Who's in it?
David Schaich (he): Constraints that we have in particular. Can you constraints that all of these
David Schaich (he): occupation that tells us this. what over the
David Schaich (he): Microsoft I comes out of that stone.
David Schaich (he): you know. Rearranging these in the phones we find
David Schaich (he): that she is a function of Beta and Gamma. It's just the sum over all microstates of this exponential factor.
David Schaich (he): This is. yeah. create a canonical.
David Schaich (he): You know what
David Schaich (he): of the partition function that we are familiar with from the
David Schaich (he): and to figure out
David Schaich (he): what the Beta and gamma appearing in this are
David Schaich (he): we charge ahead and
David Schaich (he): determine the temperature and chemical potential
David Schaich (he): in the usual way. Indeed.
David Schaich (he): equilibrium. They come from partial derivatives of the entropy which we should express in terms. I, said she, so that full entropy for the whole system.
David Schaich (he): What's this reason Why.
David Schaich (he): that is odd? I'm just.
David Schaich (he): And we just insert a result for occupation probabilities
David Schaich (he): into that logarithm.
David Schaich (he): You will have
David Schaich (he): 3 terms
David Schaich (he): this product into the sum of 3 log rooms.
David Schaich (he): So we have minus r times
David Schaich (he): the sum over. P. I. Times. The first logarithm is
David Schaich (he): minus the exponential of minus Beta Uk just gives us.
I
David Schaich (he): different label, some of the
David Schaich (he): which we
David Schaich (he): can then just rearrange the sum over probabilities by themselves. On along the negative signs Cancel.
David Schaich (he): Well.
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): we can recognize our times.
David Schaich (he): The so of
David Schaich (he): P. I.
David Schaich (he): As one of the constraints that we imposed
David Schaich (he): the starts. Yeah, cool. Yeah, she has
computer.
David Schaich (he): our times the sum of P. I. I must equal the total
David Schaich (he): to see if some income will not put the subscripts
David Schaich (he): for the on there. That would just be Beta times the energy.
David Schaich (he): my a total of a number. and
David Schaich (he): sorry but that I go through that too quickly. Or Are you happy with
yeah
David Schaich (he): results? So far.
David Schaich (he): not seeing any objections.
David Schaich (he): If this entropy try to keep it on the screen
for a minute
David Schaich (he): and
put it into
David Schaich (he): yeah. partial.
David Schaich (he): inverse type of sure change in the
entropy
David Schaich (he): with respect to the energy, a fixed total number.
David Schaich (he): So in the first term. Yes. Grant and all the partition functions that she currently as a function of.
David Schaich (he): So we have to.
David Schaich (he): It's true.
David Schaich (he): alright.
David Schaich (he): it's to
and
David Schaich (he): parameters some overall factor of all
David Schaich (he): times.
David Schaich (he): The data
David Schaich (he): same here.
David Schaich (he): Respect to
David Schaich (he): that we have
David Schaich (he): partial derivative with respect to itself, is just one
David Schaich (he): fixed particular number in
respect to the
David Schaich (he): So we dig into. say this partial derivative, of the all right.
David Schaich (he): that she is an economical, sufficient function.
David Schaich (he): I's
David Schaich (he): the change rule, the oppression derivative of the arguments, the long as that she itself.
David Schaich (he): the number to the the exponential function with respect to Beta, just brings down a minus E. I. Within that some of the microstates
David Schaich (he): the exponential function remains unchanged.
David Schaich (he): and you can recognize this as the overall negative sign some of the microstates of Ei. How is the year
David Schaich (he): Probability P. A. Which is the exponential factor normalized, by
David Schaich (he): which you recently
David Schaich (he): plug in
David Schaich (he): this stuff.
David Schaich (he): Writing down the entropy that some of
David Schaich (he): be the times I will. The is just that total energy.
David Schaich (he): the total divided by the number of replicas in our system.
David Schaich (he): Something very similar happens for
David Schaich (he): the second partial derivative that we. this first factor
over zoom. She. It is
David Schaich (he): the derivative with respect to Gamma on the exponential.
actually.
David Schaich (he): that Gamma brings down a positive and I we some that over
David Schaich (he): all microstates weighted by it.
David Schaich (he): you just end up with the total number of particles divided by R. And then these results. and to the
David Schaich (he): expression that we have for the inverse temperature.
You end up with the
David Schaich (he): who else?
David Schaich (he): And let me
In general?
David Schaich (he): Yeah. The other 3 terms
David Schaich (he): are still the same as they would.
David Schaich (he): You can
David Schaich (he): very nicely.
David Schaich (he): Those terms are the same negative sign they cancel, they cancel.
David Schaich (he): and we find it might have yes, or expected from the not everyone's home. This the grounds multiplier. Beta is just the inver assemblage.
David Schaich (he): We have one last
David Schaich (he): few minutes for today
David Schaich (he): it's a bit easier to
David Schaich (he): go back to that definition of chemical potential and divide through
David Schaich (he): by the
David Schaich (he): negative temperature. Since that just gives us
David Schaich (he): same. I can, just with the rules of
David Schaich (he): E and and the flick compared to the inverse temperature.
David Schaich (he): So we can just rewrite that for all your expression.
David Schaich (he): one that we found to you minus u over r
David Schaich (he): plus
David Schaich (he): what I said she she is.
David Schaich (he): and then plus the
David Schaich (he): the derivative of E itself, with respect to end, when you is fixed, vanishes
this
David Schaich (he): and the by itself
the end.
David Schaich (he): See, as before.
David Schaich (he): plus our
David Schaich (he): this one.
And
so one of the
I left with
David Schaich (he): a simple results for our final
David Schaich (he): you over to you. There's a negative sign there. this is up.
It's not nice.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): we have
David Schaich (he): just barely in this hour gotten to
David Schaich (he): the desire. Result.
David Schaich (he): everything together.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): The microstate called release.
David Schaich (he): with no reference to
David Schaich (he): any aspect of the
David Schaich (he): and just to right results with everything. Yes, please.
David Schaich (he): Probably for Microsoft I. It's normalized by that Grand canonical partition function.
an exponential actor
David Schaich (he): of minus energy visa, I
David Schaich (he): bye. Bye.
David Schaich (he): what
David Schaich (he): in that microstate again, by the way.
for sure.
David Schaich (he): we can you right
David Schaich (he): usually
David Schaich (he): in this meeting. and all right.
David Schaich (he): our efficient function is still is some overall microstates of
David Schaich (he): a generalization of the Boltzmann factor.
David Schaich (he): let me know.
includes.
David Schaich (he): in addition to the the contribution of
David Schaich (he): a chemical potential which you can. Your number has
David Schaich (he): dimensions of energy, just like the How about you?
David Schaich (he): So from micro state to microstate
David Schaich (he): with the energy and critical number all I to
David Schaich (he): fluctuates and
David Schaich (he): the particle reservoir
David Schaich (he): the definition of the
David Schaich (he): So in this room, like it is
David Schaich (he): simply unknownable
David Schaich (he): except for
David Schaich (he): yeah.
the fixes. That's true
David Schaich (he): and chemical potential for us to start off with.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): that is the
David Schaich (he): Oh. we'll continue next week by driving something
the usual qualities like
David Schaich (he): entropy and internal energy. And now particle
David Schaich (he): starting from this
David Schaich (he): potential and then
David Schaich (he): going on already next week, start applying this to
David Schaich (he): awesome statistics doing a bit of introduction of
David Schaich (he): those details just there, and also so that we don't need to have any prior. not with you, or experience with anything quantum to get the most out of it.
David Schaich (he): This is a good place to software today. I will wrap up more or less on time.
David Schaich (he): Just see
all right
David Schaich (he): any questions
David Schaich (he): before I let you
David Schaich (he): rest of your Tuesday.
David Schaich (he): Good. Well, i'll see you again Thursday morning for next tutorial on
David Schaich (he): a few more thermodynamic cycles.
David Schaich (he): petrol, and the Diesel engines
David Schaich (he): contracts between them.